--- 
layout: post
title: Mclovin does Emacs
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

As part of my New Years Resolution to increase my overall productivity and be more disciplined (generally in life), I've been experimenting with a couple of text-editors. Tried out vim first because I was quite familiar with it, but it didn't promise the paradigm-shift that I was expecting to happen in my work-flow.

h2. Enter Emacs

Daniel Fischer's "blog post":http://www.danielfischer.com/2008/12/16/emacs-on-osx-for-ruby-on-rails-development/ did quite a bit to pique my curiosity and upon return from my holiday, I bought and watched the awesome "Emacs peepcode":http://peepcode.com/products/meet-emacs as well. I've been trying to use "Emacs":http://www.apple.com/downloads/macosx/unix_open_source/carbonemacspackage.html continuously for the last couple of days (including at work) and even though I am still stumbling my way a little through the darkness, I am awed by how much power it has.

h2. My likes

* Embedded shell which gives me the power to write and test code with minimal context-switching. I'm using this "one":http://www.20seven.org/journal/2008/11/emacs-terminal-emulator.html currently and it works much better than the default M-x shell.
* Embedded IRB which offers the same functionality. You can even copy-paste a function from your Ruby buffer to a terminal and execute it! How awesome is that.
* Multi-window workflow. Tabs are great, but being able to see two files side-by-side is better IMO.
* "Built-in Git":http://zagadka.vm.bytemark.co.uk/magit, where you can push/pull/branch/commit with the press of a button.
* Full-screen coding (although I'm not able to toggle it occasionally - have to figure this out).
* All these above reasons combine to give me a piece of software I rarely have to switch away  from while at work - thus effectively boosting productivity.


h2. My dislikes

* Found it hard to learn/configure in the beginning. Spent at least 3-4 hours trying to get my "configuration":http://www.github.com/arunthampi/emacs-starter-kit (forked from "topfunky":http://www.twitter.com/topfunky) right. The peepcode was a great help.
* The different key-combinations are slightly overwhelming, but on the bright-side, unlike Vim I don't need to switch from command-mode to edit-mode and back during coding.

It's still early days and who knows, I might still head back to good ol' TextMate soon. On the other hand, if I can push through the initial pain-barrier, Emacs offers an awesome and powerful cross-platform IDE.